.TH SUFIND 9SU SU
.SH NAME
.B sufind \-
get information from the collected program self-documentations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sufind [-v -n] string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sufind
is a Bourne shell program that
gets information from the collected program self-documentations.
The basic command pumps the first four non-empty lines of every
self-documentation that contains a match to the given string
.I anywhere
in the self-documentation.  The -n ("name") option is used to search for
the exact command name, given a fragment of the name.  The -v ("verbose")
option is used to pump every line in every self-documentation that contains
a match to the given string.
.P
The shell, updatedoc(9SU), updates the data base used by
.I sufind
by extracting the self-documention from the current SU C programs.
At the Center for Wave Phenomena, we run updatedoc nightly from a
crontab(1) file.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.sp
.nf
	sufind mig
.fi
.sp
produces the output:
.sp
.nf
SUGAZMIG -- constant vel migration of zero-offset data
sugazmig dx= v= [optional parameters] < stdin > stdout
Required parameters:
	dx = trace spacing on input data

For more information type: program_name or man program_name
.fi
.sp
The command
.sp
.nf
	sufind -n dmo
.sp
produces the output:
.sp
.nf
SUHALEDMO -- dmo of common offset data ... and ...  inverse DMO
SULOGDMO -- dmo/inv.dmo of log-stretched common offset data

For more information type: "program_name -" or "man program_name"
.fi
.sp
The command
.sp
.nf
	sufind -v nmo
.sp
produces the output:
.sp
sunmo:SUNMO - NMO with arbitrary velocity model
sunmo:sunmo <stdin >stdout v= [optional parameters]
sunmo:		(1) if v=v0 then do constant velocity nmo.
sunmo:		    tv=t1,...,tn and do stratified velocity nmo.
sunmo:		(3) if v=filename, then do v(t,x) nmo.
sunmo:	stretch = 1.5	The maximum nmo stretch for hard mute.
sunmo:Note: sunmo depends on the dt, offset and cdp fields being set.
sustkvel:	   stacking velocity model required by sunmo
sustkvel:				required by sunmo:
sustkvel:    sunmo <data.cdp par=stkpar >data.nmo
sustkvel:    sunmo <data.cdp par=stkpar >data.nmo
sustkvel:stkpar, in the form of the velocity model required by sunmo.
sustkvel:	produde a variable velocity file for sunmo.

For more information type: "program_name -" or "man program_name"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
crontab(1) updatedoc(9SU)
.SH AUTHOR
Jack.
.SH SOURCE
su/shell/sufind
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.2
