.TH SEGYREAD 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B segyread \-
read an SEG-Y tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
segyread >stdout [tape=RMTDEVICE]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Segyread
reads a SEG-Y format tape and produces an su data set, an ascii
file whose contents is the ebcdic tape header block from the
tape, and a 400 byte binary file whose contents is the binary
header block from the tape.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I tape 
the raw tape device to use, the default is the string RMTDEVICE defined in
the include file portdefs.h.
.TP
.I hfile
the name of the file to store the ascii header.  The default name is "header."
.TP
.I bfile
the name of the file to store the binary header.  The default name is "bhed."
.TP
.I over
flag to over-ride the check on IBM format when set to 1.  The default is 0.
.TP
.I trmin
the first trace to read, the default is the first trace on the tape.
.TP
.I trmax
the last trace to read, the default is the last trace on the tape
(or INT_MAX, the largest admissible int as defined in the include
file, limits.h).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
segyread >sudata
.sp
segyread >golden.data bfile=golden.bin hfile=golden.head
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 8
.I "format is not IBM floating point"
The binary header does not contain a 1 in the format field (see the include
file, segy.h, for a description of the binary header).  To over ride this
check use the "over" parameter discussed above.
.TP
.I "bh.hns=... != tr.ns=..."
The binary header field, hns, and the first trace header field, ns,
show differing number of samples.  Often this indicates a bad tape,
but this message is only a warning, not a fatal error.  An
attempt to recover and read the tape is made as follows: if the binary
hns field is set, it is assumed to be correct and the trace headers are
reset to agree with it and the tape read proceeds; if the binary nhs field
is not set, and the trace header ns field is set, then hns is reset
to agree with ns and the tape read proceeds; finally if neither nhs or
ns are set, then we concede failure and exit with the message,
.TP
.I "bhed and segy show 0 samples/trace"
The binary header and the first trace header both show a 0 in the number
of samples field.  This makes it impossible to read the tape.
.PP
Also complains and dies if standard output is something strange
(e.g., a terminal or directory) and passes along system call failure messages.
.SH SEE ALSO
segywrite(1) conv_float(3su)
.SH AUTHORS
Einar, Jack, Brian, Chris
.SH SOURCE
su/src/segyread.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.17
