.TH SUADDHEAD 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suaddhead \-
Add SEGY headers to bare traces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suaddhead <stdin >stdout ns= ftn=0
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suaddhead
adds a SEGY header at the beginning of every
trace.  Each of the headers contains the input value ns in the ns field,
consecutive integers, 1, 2, 3, ... in the tracl field and zeroes in all
the other fields.
Other fields can be set using sushw.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETER
.TP 8
.I ns
the number of samples on each trace.
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETER
.TP 8
.I ftn
the Fortran data flag.  The default value 0 indicates that the data
is written unformatted from C; the value 1 indicates that the data
is written unformatted from Fortran.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
suaddhead ns=1024 <bare_traces | sushw key=dt a=4000 >segy_traces
.fi
.PP
This command line adds the SEGY headers to traces with 1024 samples
and pipes the result into sushw to set the sample rate field, ns,
to 4 ms (0.004 secs).   Note that the "a" parameter used alone in
sushw sets the key value in each trace equal to the indicated constant.
On a SEGY trace the dt field is in microseconds, so the value set is,
indeed, 0.004 secs.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 8
.I "input can't be tty"
The user forgot to redirect standard input to a file containing
binary floats.
.TP 8
.I "undefined input filetype ..."
Input was redirected to a directory or other non-standard file.
.TP 8
.I "ftn=... must be 0 or 1"
A safety first check of the ftn parameter value revealed an illegal value.
.SH SEE ALSO
suchw(1) sushw(1) sustrip(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Einar, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suaddhead.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.28
