.TH SUADDNOISE 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suaddnoise \-
Add noise to traces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suaddnoise <stdin >stdout sn=3 noise=gauss seed=from_the_system_clock
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suaddnoise
adds either Gaussian or white (uniform) noise to each trace.
The output trace is the input trace plus a scaled version of
a random noise vector.  The scale factor is the reciprocal of
the sn parameter times the square root of the ratio of input (signal)
power to the noise power.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETER
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETER
.TP 8
.I sn
the signal to noise ratio (positive).  This parameter determines
the strength of the additive noise as specified in the \s-2DESCRIPTION\s0.
.TP
.I noise
the type of noise probability distribution to use.  The default is "gauss"
and "white" selects the uniform distribution.
.TP
.I seed
the random number seed.  The default is to make it essentially random
by using the long integer returned by the system time function,
see time(2).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
suaddnoise sn=2 <ideal_traces | suband > noisy_traces
.fi
.PP
This command line uses an additive noise level at 50% of the signal power
and smooths the result with a bandpass filter with upper cut at
half Nyquist.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All specific ones are self explanatory; also passes along any
messages from system call failures.
.SH SEE ALSO
random(3C) time(2)
.SH AUTHORS
Jack, Brian.  The Gaussian algorithm is described in Knuth,
"The Art of Computer Programming", volume 2, page 104, as Algorithm P,
the polar algorithm of Box, et al.
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suaddnoise.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.13
