.TH SUAMP 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suamp \-
Extract amplitude, phase, real or imaginary trace from frequency-space data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suamp <stdin >stdout mode=amp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suamp
extracts traces from frequency-space data created by sufft and other
programs (see the manual page for sufft for a discussion of the input data
format).  The user may choose to extract one of: amplitude traces, phase
traces, real part traces or imaginary part traces.  The extracted traces
are half length from 0 to Nyquist.  The primary use of this program is
for display, but to admit further processing, 
the output traces are marked in the trid field with
the appropriate symbolic value, AMPLITUDE, PHASE, REALPART or IMAGPART
as defined in the include files cwp.h and segy.h.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I mode
Legal values of the mode parameter are: \fIamp\fP (default), \fIphase\fP,
\fIreal\fP or \fIimag\fP to extract the corresponding type of output trace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
	sufft <data | suamp | suwig | tube
	sufft <data | suamp mode=phase | suwig | tube
.fi
The first example plots amplitude traces; the second, phase traces.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains and quits if input data is not marked as FPACK in the trid
field (i.e. is not frequency-space data stored in the sufft output
format) or if the mode is specified incorrectly.
Also relays messages from system call errors.
.TP 8
.I "mysterious mode=..."
is a defensive programming message indicating a coding error.
.SH SEE ALSO
sufft(1) suifft(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Shuki, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suamp.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.10
