.TH SUBAND 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suband \-
Apply tapered bandpass filter in frequency domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suband <stdin >stdout [optional parameters]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suband
performs a band pass filter on time domain data.  The filtering
is carried out in frequency domain and uses a sine-squared tapering
function.  The filter is scaled so that a unit delta function
produces a sinc with unit peak.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
The user may specify four "corner" frequencies: f1, f2, f3, f4.
The frequency domain filter is formed by filling with zeroes from 0 to
f1, sine-squared taper rise to the maximum value at f2, filling with
ones from f2 to f3, sine-squared taper fall to 0 at f4 and then filling
with zeroes beyond f4.
.TP 8
.I f1
The left lower corner frequency in Hertz; default is 0.1 of the Nyquist
frequency.
.TP 8
.I f2
The left high corner frequency in Hertz; default is 0.15 of the Nyquist
frequency.
.TP 8
.I f3
The right lower corner frequency in Hertz; default is 0.45 of the
Nyquist frequency.
.TP 8
.I f4
The right high corner frequency in Hertz; default is 0.5 of the Nyquist
frequency.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
	suband <data f1=10 f2=12.5 f3=40 f4=50 | ...
.fi
Here we bandlimit the data using the indicated four corner
frequencies.  The nominal band would be 11.25 to 45 Hz.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains and quits if input data is marked as not being time domain
seismic data in the trid field.  Also relays messages from system call
errors.
.TP 8
.I "dt field is zero and not getparred"
The code requires a non-zero sampling rate dt, so it can form a
sampling rate in frequency domain.  An attempt is made to read dt from
the dt header field and then the code checks to see if the user has
supplied a value from the command line.
.TP 8
.I "Padded nt=... -- too big"
After increasing the number of samples to a size the mixed radix
transform can handle efficiently, the trace length exceeded the maximum
allowable value, SY_NDAT, as defined in segy.h.
.TP 8
.I "Illegal filter parameters"
One of the following inequalities was violated:
.nf
0.0 <= f1 <= f2 < f3 <= f4
.SH CAVEAT
The code is complicated by use of a complex fft.  To compensate, it
packs two transforms together.  It would be better to develop and use a
comparable mixed radix real transform.
.SH SEE ALSO
suamp(1) sufft(1) suifft(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suband.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.10
