.TH SUCHW 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suchw \-
change header word using up to two existing header word fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suchw <stdin >stdout key1=cdp key2=cdp key3=cdp a=0 b=1 c=0 d=1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suchw
changes the value of the header word key1 using the formula:
.nf
	val(key1) = (a + b * val(key2) + c * val(key3)) / d
.fi
Here, a, b, c, d are doubles.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I key1
the key word field whose value is changed (default "cdp").
.TP
.I key2, key2
key word fields whose values may be used in the computation
(both defaults "cdp").
.TP
.I a
additive term to value (default 0).
.TP
.I b
multiplicative weight for the key2 value (default 1).
.TP
.I c
multiplicative weight for the key3 value (default 0).
.TP
.I d
overall scale factor divided by (default 1).
.SH EXAMPLE
The command
.sp
.nf
	suchw key1=tracr key2=tracr a=1000 <infile >outfile
.fi
.sp
adds 1000 to tracr value.
.P
Assuming that the shotpoint (sx) and offset fields are set, the following
pipeline sets the receiver point (gx) and cdp fields (we choose to use the
actual location for the cdp fields instead of the conventional
1, 2, 3, ... enumeration).  Note that the order of the passes through
.I suchw
is significant.
.nf
suchw <indata key1=gx key2=offset key3=sx b=1 c=1 |
suchw key1=cdp key2=gx key3=sx b=1 c=1 d=2 >outdata
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following defensive error messages indicate coding errors:
.TP 8
.I "can't change char header word"
An internal subroutine classified the header data type as a char* (there
were none such as of 03/12/88).
.TP 8
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following defensive error messages indicate coding errors:
.TP 8
.I "can't change char header word"
An internal subroutine classified the header data type as a char* (there
were none such as of 03/12/88).
.TP 8
.I "unknown type ..."
The data type returned by the internal subroutine was not a valid type.
.SH SEE ALSO
sushw(1), suaddhead(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Einar, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suchw.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.25
