.TH SUFFT 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sufft \-
Fast Fourier transform time to frequency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sufft <stdin >stdout sign=1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sufft
performs an fft using an optimal or near-optimal trace length, N, composed
of a product of the factors 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.  N is greater than or equal
the input trace length, by at most 500 sample points.  The output is
"packed" frequency domain traces.
.PP
For even length, N, a "packed" frequency trace is: xr[0], xi[N/2], xr[1],
xi[1], ..., xr[N/2 - 1], xi[N/2 - 1] (the second entry is exceptional).
For odd length N, a "packed" frequency trace is: xr[0], xi[(N-1)/2],
xr[1], xi[1], ..., xr[(N-1)/2 - 1], xi[(N-1)/2 - 1], xi[(N-1)/2] (the second
and last entries are exceptional).
.PP
Because of the forward search for optimal length
N, it is likely that the odd N case never occurs in
the current implementation.  However, the code
supports odd N to admit the possibility of later
supporting user specification of N.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I sign
The sign parameter specifies the sign in the exponent of the transform.
By default it is 1, it may be specified as -1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains and quits if input data is marked as not being time domain
seismic data in the trid field.  Also relays messages from system call
errors.
.TP 8
.I "Padded nt=... -- too big"
After increasing the number of samples to a size the mixed radix
transform can handle efficiently, the trace length exceeded the maximum
allowable value, SY_NDAT, as defined in segy.h.
.TP 8
.I "sign = ... must be 1 or -1"
An illegal sign value was typed on the command line.
.SH CAVEAT
The code is complicated by use of a complex fft.  To compensate, it
packs two transforms together.  It would be better to develop and use a
comparable mixed radix real transform.
.SH SEE ALSO
suamp(1) sufft2d(1) suifft(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/sufft.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.13
