.TH SUFLIP 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suflip \-
Flip a data set in various ways
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suflip <stdin >stdout flip=1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suflip
rotates or transposes or does left to right reversals
or top to bottom reversals of SEG-Y
data according to the value of the "flip" parameter.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I flip
The legal values are -1, 0, 1, 2 and 3 with the
default value being 1.  Following are descriptions of the effect of these
settings and an example based on the following 3x2 data set:
.nf
	1  4
	2  5
	3  6
.fi
.PP
The setting flip=-1 produces a counter-clockwise rotation of 90 degrees.
Our sample test set would be flipped to:
.nf
	4  5  6
	1  2  3
.fi
.PP
The setting flip=0 produces the transposed data set.
Our sample test set would be flipped to:
.nf
	1  2  3
	4  5  6
.fi
.PP
The setting flip=1 produces a clockwise rotation of 90 degrees.
Our sample test set would be flipped to:
.nf
	3  2  1
	6  5  4
.fi
.PP
The setting flip=2 produces a left to right reversal.
This would be useful, if say, the data were on the tape from south
to north and we wanted to display it from north to south.
Our sample test set would be flipped to:
.nf
	4  1
	5  2
	6  3
.fi
The setting flip=3 produces a top to bottom reversal.
Our sample test set would be flipped to:
.nf
	3  6
	2  5
	1  4
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains and quits if the flip parameter is given an illegal value
or if the read of the first trace comes up empty.
.I Suflip
also passes along error messages from system call failures.
The following defensive error message indicates a coding error, not
a user error:
.TP 8
.I "mysterious flip value: ..."
The internal subroutine, flipper, was passed an illegal flip parameter
value from the main.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suflip.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.11
