.TH SUGAZMIG 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sugazmig \-
Time migration of zero-offset data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sugazmig <stdin >stdout dx= v= [optional parameters]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sugazmig
performs zero offset time migration by Gazdag's phase shift algorithm.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I dx
The trace spacing.
.TP 8
.I v
The background velocity.
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I dt
The time sample rate in seconds.  This value is taken from the
dt header field, but user input overrides the header field (usually
supplied when the header field isn't set).
.TP 8
.I nxpad
The output number of traces.  This is calculated internally as
the power of two which is equal to or just exceeds the number
of traces in the input data, but a user supplied value
overrides the calculated value.
.TP 8
.I ntpad
The padded input number of time samples.  This is calculated internally as
the power of two which is equal to or just exceeds the number
of samples in the input data, but a user supplied value
overrides the calculated value.
.TP 8
.I ntau
The number of output time samples.  This value is taken from the
ns header field, but user input overrides this value.
Note that execution time is proportional to ntau; so taking ntau
less than tr.ns will result in a faster migration, but resolution
will be degraded.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains if either v or dx is not supplied or if any of v, dx, or dtau
is non-positive.
ALso if the first trace read comes up empty or reveals that the input
is not time domain seismic data (trid field equal one or not set).
.I Sugazmig
also relays messages from system call errors.
.SH CAVEAT
Should do depth migration for a stratified velocity profile.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris
.SH SOURCE
su/src/sugazmig.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.6
