.TH SUGAIN 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sugain \-
Apply various types of gain, clip, and balancing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sugain <stdin >stdout [optional parameters]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sugain
provides access to a full suite of subroutines to gain, clip and
balance seismic traces.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
If no parameters are specified,
.I sugain
is a slow no-op.
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
Selected operations are carried out in the order they are
discussed below.  A symbolic formula for this is:
.sp 1.0v
.nf
out(t) = scale * BAL{CLIP[AGC{[t^tpow * exp(epow * t) * in(t)]^gpow}]}
.sp 1.0v
.fi
.TP 8
.I tpow
If a non-zero value (the default is 0.0) is specified, then the
data is multiplied (gained) by t to the power tpow.
.TP 8
.I epow
If a non-zero value (the default is 0.0) is specified, then the
data is multiplied (gained) by the exponential of epow times t.
.TP 8
.I gpow
If a value other than 1.0 (the default is 1.0) is specified, the data is
dynamically compressed by taking the signed gpow power of the data.
The term "signed power" means that the absolute value of the datum is
raised to the power and the result is multiplied by the sign of the
datum.  For efficiency, the code has special branches for the common
special cases of square and square root.
.TP 8
.I agc
This is a flag with default value 0.  If it is set to 1, then automatic
gain control is performed (see suagc(1)).
.TP 8
.I wagc
This parameter is used only if the agc flag is on.  It specifies the
agc window in samples; the default value is 20 samples (see suagc(1)).
.TP 8
.I trap
If a positive value (the default is 0.0) is specified, then any data
value whose absolute value exceeds the trap value is replaced by 0.0.
.TP 8
.I clip
If a positive value (the default is 0.0) is specified, then any data
value whose absolute value exceeds the clip value is replaced by the clip
value times the sign of the data value.
.TP 8
.I qclip
If a value between 0.0 and 1.0 (1.0 is the default) is specified, then
a clip value corresponding to that quantile based on the absolute values
of the data is computed and applied.  Note: 100 times a quantile is a
percentile.
.TP 8
.I qbal
This is a flag with default value 0.  The value 1 specifies that the
traces are to be balanced by the value given by the qclip parameter.
Balancing refers to scaling the traces.  If the qbal flag is on and
qclip is 1.0, then the maximum magnitude on each trace is computed and
each datum on the trace is divided by this value.  If qclip is less
than 1.0, then the magnitude value corresponding to this quantile is
computed and each datum divided by this value.  After the division,
a clip operation with clip value 1.0 is done.
.TP 8
.I pbal
This is a flag with default value 0.  The value 1 specifies that the
traces are to be "power" balanced.  This means that each trace is
divided by its root mean square.
.TP 8
.I scale
If a value other 1.0 (the default) is specified, then each data value is
multiplied by this value.
.TP 8
.I jon
This is a flag with default value 0.  If it is set to 1, the processing
parameters discussed on pp. 233-236 of Claerbout's "Imaging the Earth"
are invoked: tpow is set to 2.0, gpow to 0.5 and qclip to .95.
These choices are often an excellent first cut for ungained field data.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains and dies if flags are set to values other than 0 or 1, or if
trap, clip, wagc are negative, or if qclip is not between 0 and 1.
Also relays messages from system call errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
suagc(1) gain(3su)
.SH AUTHOR
Jon, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/sugain.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.27
