.TH SUGETHW 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sugethw \-
get value of header words for each trace in file in either ascii or binary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sugethw <stdin >stdout key1 key2 ... [output=]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sugethw
writes the values of the selected keywords as either ascii characters
or binary floats according to the value of the "output" parameter.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I key(s)
one or more key words separated by white space.  Note that the
usual getpar syntax is not used here (see examples below).
The values are written in the same order as the keys on the command line.
.TP
.I output
If the standard output is a tty or pipe, the values are default printed
as ascii characters.  If the standard output is a diskfile or tapefile,
the values are default written as binary floats.  These defaults can be
overridden respectively by "output=binary" or "output=ascii."
.SH EXAMPLE
The command
.nf
	 sugethw <stdin sx gx
.fi
writes sx, gx values as ascii trace by trace to the terminal.
The command
.nf
	 sugethw <stdin sx gx >outfile
.fi
writes sx, gx values as binary floats trace by trace to "outfile".
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 8
.I "must specify key(s) as command line arguments"
At least one key must be selected.
.TP
.I "stdout is illegal filetype"
Standard output was a directory or some other strange animal.
.TP
.I "output parameter=..., must be ascii or binary"
Some string other than the ones indicated was passed in.
.SH SEE ALSO
surange(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Shuki, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/src/sugethw.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.32
