.TH SUNMO 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sunmo \-
normal moveout (NMO) with an arbitrary velocity model
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sunmo <stdin >stdout v= [optional parameters]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sunmo
corrects time sections for travel
distance by the classical hyperbolic moveout algorithm.  The velocity
profile may be (1) constant or (2) vertically varying or (3) vertically
and laterally varying (see below for specification of v).  In the
variable velocity case, the velocity profile is completed by giving the
zero incidence times.  Velocity profiles are extended to the entire
mesh by linear interpolation and constant extrapolation.
.P
For the variable velocity case, the appropriate velocities to use are
the root mean square velocities.  Sometimes (especially when doing synthetic
modeling), the interval velocities and layer thicknesses are the
quantities conveniently available.  In such cases, sustkvel(1) can be
used to convert this data to the desired stacking velocities and
zero-incidence time.
.P
.I Sunmo
depends on the offset and cdp header fields being set.  If dt
is not set in the header, it \fImust\fP be supplied on the command line.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I v
velocity--may be a constant, vector (vertically varying profile) or
file (vertically and laterally varying profile).  If the user specifies
v as
.sp
.nf
v=v0
.fi
.sp
(and v0 is a number, not a file) then constant velocity nmo will be
done.  If the user specifies v as a vector of numbers,
.sp
.nf
v=v1,v2,...,vn,
.fi
.sp
then the corresponding zero-incidence times must also be supplied as a
vector of of positive numbers in increasing order,
.sp
.nf
tv=t1,...,tn
.fi
.sp
and stratified velocity nmo will be done.  If
.sp
.nf
v=filename
.fi
.sp
is specified, then f the file can be opened and is the proper format,
full two-dimensionally varying nmo will be done.  The velocity file
format is:
.sp
.nf
m midpoint1
	tv1.1    v1.1
	tv1.2    v1.2
	m midpoint2
	tv2.1    v2.1
	tv2.2    v2.2
.fi
.sp
The midpoints should be in
increasing order and within each midpoint group, the tv's should be in
increasing order.
.TP
.I dt
Mandatory if not set in the header.  See below.
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I stretch
The maximum nmo stretch for hard mute.  The default is 1.5 (times the
sample rate).
.TP
.I dt
The time sample rate.  The default is the value in the header field
tr.dt.  If not set in the header field, this parameter is mandatory.
.TP
.I verbose
If set to 1, processing parameters are echoed to the terminal.  The
default is 0 (off).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
In addition to relaying messages from system call errors,
.I sunmo
complains with a cogent message and dies if parameters are
specified to impossible or inconsistent values, etc.  For example,
.TP 8
.I "dt header field must be set"
.TP
.I "stretch = ..., must be positive"
.TP
.I "number of tv's (...) and v's (...) unequal"
.SH SEE ALSO
sustack(1) sustkvel(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Shuki, Chuck, Jack.  Technical reference: "The Common Depth Point
Stack", William A. Schneider, Proc. IEEE, v. 72, n. 10, p.  1238-1254,
1984.
.SH SOURCE
su/src/sunmo.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.67
