.ds SY \s-2\f(sRSEG-Y\fP\s0
.TH SUPACK1 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B supack1 \-
pack \*(SY trace data into chars
.SH SYNOPSIS
supack1 <segy_file >packed_file	gpow=0.5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Supack1
compacts the float data portion of the SEGY traces to char data.
This retains 2 significant figures of the data and is sufficient
for plotting seismic data.
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I gpow
The optional power used to compress the dynamic range of the
data (as suggested by Jon Claerbout).
.SH DEFINES
.TP 8
CHARPACK
\*(SY trid field value to indicate char data (101)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
suunpack1 <packed_data | sunmo | sudecon | supack1 >packed_data
.fi
.sp
Here we avoid making a large disk file by using a file
previously packed with supack1.
.SH CAVEATS
Portions of the unassigned \*(SY field are used to store the
reciprocal of the power parameter (ungpow) and the reciprocal of
the scaling factor used to limit the data to the levels attainable
with a char (unscale) as floats.
.P
This renders the program non-portable and is being done mostly to
test the use of float header fields.  One could certainly change
the data types to short with a suitable scaling as is done elsewhere
in the \*(SY header (eg. for dt).  Nonetheless, since the data would
not be portable in general anyway, this doesn't seem to be giving
up much--transferring seismic traces between machines should be done
with a tape meeting the \*(SY standard--use segyhdrs(1) and
segywrite(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
suunpack1(1) supack2(1) suunpack2(1) segyhdrs(1) segywrite(1)
gettr(3SU) puttr(3SU) and
J. F. Claerbout's "Imaging the Earth's Interior" on dynamic compression.
.SH AUTHOR
Jack
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.18
