.TH SUSTRIP 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B sustrip \-
remove the SEG-Y headers from the traces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "../include/cwp.h"
#include "../include/segy.h"
#include "../include/hdr.h"

sustrip <stdin >stdout head=/dev/null outpar=/dev/tty ftn=0
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sustrip
removes the headers from SEG-Y traces.  The headers may optionally
be saved in a file.  An output parameter file is made recording
the name of the stripped trace file and its dimensions.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I head 
The name of the file to save the headers in.  The default is
/dev/null (that is, throw the headers away).
.TP
.I outpar
The name of the output parameter file; the default is /dev/tty (that is,
the user's terminal).  This file contains the output filename, the
number of samples per trace, and the sample rate in seconds in the format:
.sp
.nf
in=stripped_trace_filename
n1=number_of_samples
dt=sample_rate
.fi
.TP
.I ftn 
The Fortran flag.  The value 0 is the default and is used when the
traces will be used by an unformatted read from C code.  The alternate
value, 1, is used for Fortran unformatted reads.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
	sustrip <DATA >STRIPPED outpar=par.stripped
.fi
.sp
The bare trace file, "STRIPPED", is made from
the SEG-Y data file named "DATA".  The bare traces are prepared for
reading by C code, the parameters for the bare trace file is
in the file, "par.stripped", and the headers are discarded.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Only for a value of ftn other than 0 and 1 or a failed attempt to
open either the "head" or "outpar" files.
.SH SEE ALSO
suaddhead(1) supmovie(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Einar, Jack
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.29
