.TH SUWIND 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suwind \-
window and time gate traces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "cwp.h"
#include "segy.h"
suwind <stdin >stdout [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suwind
passes the selected time gate on selected traces.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I verbose=0
If verbose=1 (yes) echo parameter values.
.TP
.B "Options for trace selection:"
.TP
.I key
The key header word to window on (see segy.h);
the default is "tracl."
.TP 8
.I min
The smallest key value to accept.  The default is the smallest long,
LONG_MIN, as defined in limits.h.
.TP
.I max
The largest key value to accept.  The default is the largest long,
LONG_MAX, as defined in limits.h.
.TP
.I abs
The absolute value flag.  On value 1, the absolute value of
the header word value is taken before the various admissibility tests
are performed.  The default value is 0.
.TP
.I j
The modulo parameter; acts with s (see next entry).
The default value is 1.
.TP
.I s
The base for the j modulo selection.  The default is 0.
A trace is passed if (key_value - s) is zero mod j.
.TP
.I count
The number of traces passed.  Default is ULONG_MAX, the largest
unsigned long as specified in limits.h.
.TP
.I bad
Delete the traces with the specified bad key value in the
bad vector parameter.  The default is an empty bed vector.
.TP
.I markonly
If this parameter has value 1, then all traces are passed,
but the selected traces are "marked" in the mark key header word
field (this is a local assignment).  Subsequent programs may then
treat "marked" traces specially.
.TP
.B "Options for time gating:"
.TP
.I tmin
The minimum time to pass.  The default is 0.0.
.TP
.I tmax
The maximum time to pass.  The default is the maximum time on the trace.
.TP
.I itmin
The minimum time sample to pass.  The default is the first sample
on the trace.  This parameter is computed from tmin if not specified.
.TP
.I itmax
The maximum time sample to pass.  The default is the maximum on the trace.
This parameter is computed from tmax if not specified.
Selecting times beyond the maximum
in the data induces zero padding (up to SY_NDAT, the maximum
admissible number of time samples, SY_NDAT as specified in segy.h).
.TP
.I nt
The number of time samples to pass.  This parameter is computed from
itmin and itmax if not specified. 
Selecting times beyond the maximum
in the data induces zero padding (up to SY_NDAT, the maximum
admissible number of time samples, SY_NDAT as specified in segy.h).
.SH CAVEATS
The code is overly complicated as a result of combining horizontal
and vertical windowing and as a result of managing the "bad"
vector with arbitrary data types.
.SH SEE ALSO
suus(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Einar, Shuki, Jack, Chris
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.66
