.TH SUWIG 1 SU
.SH NAME
.B suwig \-
no-frills wiggle trace program for data plotting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
suwig <stdin [optional parameters] | tube
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Suwig
produces wiggle trace byte codes.  The wiggle traces are put
on a graphics terminal screen by using a pen filter.
.P
The default plot size is designed
to fit in a 6"x8" hardcopy area, not to give a full-screen
plot.  A full-screen plot can be made by modifying the sizex
and sizet parameters.
.P
The shell program, tube(9SU), tries to deduce the proper pen from the
environment variable, TERM.
.P
The shell,
qwig(9SU) evokes suwig with half the default sizes for the benefit of
slow graphics terminals.
.P
The shell,
qqwig(9SU) evokes suwig with half the default sizes and windows
the data set (i.e selects a subset of traces) for the benefit of
slow graphics terminals.  This shell is of tutorial significance since
it illustrates how to allow shell files to handle arguments in getpar
format and thus how to write shells that act like su C programs (except
for execution speed).
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I none
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I fill
A flag to get positive fill.  The default value is 0 (no fill); fill=1
produces fill.
.TP
.I plotfat
The line thickness of traces.  For instance, plotfat=3 produces triply
thick lines.
.TP
.I sizet
The length of the vertical axis in inches.  The default is 6 inches.
.TP
.I sizex
The length of the horizontal axis in inches.  The default is 4.5 inches.
.TP
.I zerot
The space between the base of the plot and the bottom of screen in
inches.  The default is 1 inch.
.TP
.I zerox
The space between the left side of the plot and the left side of the
screen in inches.  The default is 0.6 inches.
.TP
.I overlap
Controls the maximum deflection.  The default value is 2.
In terms of the gain parameter, "scale", the
maximum deflection in traces is overlap*scale.
If the gain parameters are defaulted (the usual case), then, scale=1,
and "overlap" is simply the maximum deflection measured in traces.
.TP
.I "gain parameters"
All gain parameters admitted by gainpkge(3SU) may be used.  The defaults
are: tpow=0.0, epow=0.0, gpow=1.0, agc=0, wagc=20, trap=0.0, clip=0.0,
qclip=1.0, qbal=1, pbal=0 and scale=1.0.
This implies that by default, the traces are balanced by the maximum
magnitude in the data set.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
In addition to relaying messages from system call errors,
.I suwig
complains and dies if the standard output is not redirected
(the output is byte code), with the message:
.TP 8
.I "must redirect or pipe byte code output"
.SH SEE ALSO
sutwig(1) sutwig2(1) sutwig2v(1) supwig(1) gainpkge(3SU)
qtwig(9SU) qqtwig(9SU) tube(9SU)
.SH AUTHOR
Shuki, Chris, Jack.
.SH SOURCE
su/src/suwig.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.1
