.TH ASKDOC 3SU SU
.SH NAME
.B askdoc \-
write self documentation string on stderr at user request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "../include/cwp.h"
void askdoc(flag)
int flag;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Askdoc
writes the self-documentation string at the user's request
on stderr and aborts the calling program.
The user is guaranteed to get the documentation with the syntax:
.sp
.nf
	program_name -
.fi
.sp
However, in most cases, the hyphen argument is unnecessary (see discussion
of flag parameter below).
.P
The programmer may directly evoke the documentation string when a user
error occurs by using selfdoc(3SU).  Indeed, askdoc calls
selfdoc to actually write the documentation string.  We have
minimized the direct use of selfdoc, since getting a long
documentation string instead of a brief error message annoys all
but the most novice SU users.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I flag
Determines under what circumstances the self-documentation
string will be written on stderr.
.sp
Most SU commands use stdin to receive data.  In this case
the flag value 1 should be specified and the program name alone
will suffice to evoke the documentation string.
If standard input need not be redirected for a particular command,
but that command has exactly one
mandatory argument, then again the flag value 1 should be be used. 
.sp
If neither mandatory redirection nor mandatory arguments are required,
then the flag value 0 should be used.  In this case, the user will
have to give the hyphen argument to get the documentation string.
Synthetic data generators with a full set of defaults are the
primary example of this class of programs.
.sp
Some programs require two or more arguments besides the
command itself (eg. sudiff) and don't use stdin.  In this case,
the number of required arguments should be given as the flag argument
(e.g., 2 for sudiff).  This traps the error of too few arguments and
again gives the documentation string with program name alone.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
	initgetpar(argc, argv); askdoc(1);
.fi
.P
Here, the standard echo on program_name alone is specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
selfdoc(3SU)
.SH AUTHOR
Shuki, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/lib/askdoc.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.3
