.TH DOQCLIP 3SU SU
.SH NAME
.B doqclip \-
quantile clip on magnitudes of a data vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
void doqclip(dataptr, qclip, nfloat)
float *dataptr;
float qclip;
int nfloat;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Doqclip
replaces any datum whose absolute value exceeds the value of the
qclip-th quantile of the magnitudes of the data vector by that quantile
times the sign of the datum.
(A quantile of a data set is a percentile divided by 100 and lies 
between 0 and 1; for example, the .95 quantile is the 95th percentile.)
.P
In the usual SU application, the data vector is created by concatenating
the data portions of a sequence of SEG-Y traces.
In this case, the clip value is computed using the entire original data set.
If, instead, trace by trace quantile is desired, then doqclip can be
called in a loop or (usually more convenient) the SEG-Y traces can be
filtered through sugain (1).
.P
This subroutine may be evoked in combination with other gain, scale or
balance parameters by calling it from gain(3SU).
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I dataptr
Pointer to the data vector.
.TP
.I qclip
Any datum above this quantile in magnitude is replaced by the quantile value
times the sign of the datum.  The quantiles are based on the magnitudes on
the data vector.
.TP
.I nfloat
The total data count (the number of samples per
trace times the number of traces in the original SEG-Y data set).
.SH SEE ALSO
sugain(1) suagc(1) quant(3SU) gain(3SU) dotpow(3SU) doepow(3SU)
dogpow(3SU) doagc(3SU)
dotrap(3SU) doclip(3SU) doqbal(3SU) dopbal(3SU) doscale(3SU)
.SH AUTHORS
Jon, Shuki, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/lib/gainpkge.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.8
