.TH FPUTTR 3SU SU
.SH NAME
.B fputtr, puttr\-
put a SEG-Y trace to a file by descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "../include/cwp.h"
#include "../include/segy.h"
#include "../include/hdr.h"
.sp 0.5v
#ifdef PUTTR1
#define NAME		"fputtr1"
#define BYTESPER	sizeof(char)	/* bytes per input datum */
void fputtr1(fd, tp)
#endif
.sp 0.5v
#ifdef PUTTR2
#define NAME		"fputtr2"
#define BYTESPER	sizeof(short)	/* bytes per input datum */
void fputtr2(fd, tp)
#endif
.sp 0.5v
#ifdef PUTTR
#define NAME		"fputtr"
#define BYTESPER	sizeof(float)	/* bytes per input datum */
void fputtr(fd, tp)
#endif
.sp 0.5v
int fd;			/* file descriptor	*/
segy *tp;		/* pointer to SEG-Y trace */
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fputtr
reads a SEG-Y trace (header bytes and data)
from the file given indicated by the passed file descriptor into the
segy structure indicated by the passed segy pointer.
The variant
.I fputtr1
is for traces with 1 byte data as used in suunpack1 and similarly
.I fputtr2
is for traces with 2 byte data as used in suunpack2.
.P
The most common case is for the data file to be redirected from stdin
and macros are provided in cwp.h for these cases.  Thus
.sp
.nf
puttr(tp)  is equivalent to fputtr(stdin, tp)
puttr1(tp) is equivalent to fputtr1(stdin, tp)
puttr2(tp) is equivalent to fputtr2(stdin, tp)
.fi
.P
To avoid having to maintain nearly identical codes, we make
three versions from a single source code as indicated in
the above SYNOPSIS.  The "1" variant is for
SEG-Y traces with the float data replaced with char data,
the "2" variant is for replacement with short data.
Use the compile options -DPUTTR, -DPUTTR1, and -DPUTTR2
respectively, for the three versions.
.P
A test driver is contained in the fputtr source code and the
makefile in the su/lib directory has a routine for compiling and
running the driver.
.SH EXAMPLE
.na
.nf
segy tr;
\&...
	while (gettr(&tr)) {
		tr.offset = abs(tr.offset);
		puttr(&tr);
	}
	...
.fi
.ad
.SH FORTRAN USAGE
.na
.nf
	call fputtr(fd, tp)
.fi
.ad
.SH BUGS
Fortran usage is dubious.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Many self-explanatory ones and:
.TP 8
.I "stdin is undefined filetype"
Stdin is a filetype unknown to statfil(3SU), eg. a FIFO.
.SH SEE ALSO
fgettr(3SU), statfil(3SU)
.SH AUTHOR
Einar, Stew, Jack
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.57
