.TH GAIN 3SU SU
.SH NAME
.B gain \-
calls various subroutine to gain, scale and balance data vectors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
void gain(dataptr, tpow, epow, gpow, agc, trap, clip, qclip,
			qbal, pbal, scale, tmin, dt, wagc, nt, ntr)
float *dataptr;
float tpow, epow, gpow, trap, clip, qclip, scale, tmin, dt;
int agc, qbal, pbal, wagc, nt, ntr;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gain
provides an interface to an extensive package of routines to gain,
scale and balance a data vector.
In the usual SU application, the data vector is created by concatenating
the data portions of a sequence of SEG-Y traces.
While the default parameter values are set by the routine that calls
.I gain,
the user of the main routine may override these defaults by
specifying parameters on the command line in the usual SU format.
.P
.I Gain
carries out the following steps:
.sp
.nf
if (tpow != 0.0) then call dotpow()
if (epow != 0.0) then call doepow()
if (agc != 0) then call doagc()
if (gpow != 1.0) then call dogpow()
if (trap > 1.0) then call dotrap()
if (clip > 1.0) then call doclip()
if (qclip < 1.0 && !qbal) then call doqclip()
if (qbal != 0) then call doqbal()
if (pbal != 0) then call dopbal()
if (scale != 1.0) then call doscale()
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I dataptr
Pointer to the data vector.
.TP
.I tpow
The power of time to gain by.  See dotpow(3SU).
.TP
.I epow
The deattenuation factor to gain by.  See doepow(3SU).
.TP
.I gpow
Dynamic compression power to gain by.  See dogpow(3SU).
.TP
.I agc
Automatic gain control flag.  See doagc(3SU).
.TP
.I trap
Value to evoke zeroing out.  See dotrap(3SU).
.TP
.I clip
Value to evoke clipping.  See doclip(3SU).
.TP
.I qclip
Value to evoke quantile clipping.  See doqclip(3SU).
.TP
.I qbal
Value to evoke quantile balancing.  See doqbal(3SU).
.TP
.I pbal
Value to evoke power balancing.  See dopbal(3SU).
.TP
.I scale
The factor to scale by.  See doscale(3SU).
.TP
.I tmin
The time corresponding to the first datum on each of the original
SEG-Y traces.
.TP
.I dt
The sampling rate of the original SEG-Y data.
.TP
.I wagc
The agc window in samples.  This parameter is used only if automatic
gain control is evoked by passing the value 1 for the value of "agc."
.TP
.I nt
The number of samples on each of the original SEG-Y traces.
.TP
.I ntr
The number of traces in the original SEG-Y data set.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Set gain defaults (balance by maximum magnitude) */
#define TPOW	0.0
#define EPOW	0.0
#define GPOW	1.0
#define AGC 	0
#define WAGC	20
#define TRAP	0.0
#define CLIP	0.0
#define QCLIP	1.0
#define QBAL	1	/* only non-default value */
#define PBAL	0
#define SCALE	1.0
\&...
	gain(dataptr, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0,
			1, 0, 1.0, tmin, dt, 20, nt, ntr);
.fi
.sp
As the comments indicate, this call to
.I gain
balances the traces by the maximum magnitude in the data set.
.SH SEE ALSO
sugain(1) suagc(1) dotpow(3SU) doepow(3SU) doagc(3SU) dogpow(3SU)
dotrap(3SU) doclip(3SU) doqclip(3SU) doqbal(3SU) dopbal(3SU) doscale(3SU)
.SH AUTHORS
Jon, Shuki, Jack
.SH SOURCE
su/lib/gainpkge.c
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.8
