.TH SGETPAR 3SU SU
.SH NAME
.B sgetpar \-
get a string parameter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "cwp.h"
int sgetpar(name, ptr)
char *name;
char **ptr;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sgetpar
is a routine that handles type string input parameters in the
the Fortran namelist format.
The arguments are normally taken from the command line.
However, if the command line argument
.I "par=filename"
is encountered, then
.I filename
is searched in addition.
.PP
The format for a parameter is
.I "name="value"".
.I Name
is the name of the variable and
.I value
is its value.  No embedded blanks around the equal sign are allowed.
.PP
In the parameter files, individual parameter specifications
are separated from each other by any number of blanks, tabs, or
newlines.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
.I name
is the name the variable is known by externally (i.e. on the command line).
If the variable is defined more than once on the command line the last
definition is used by
.I sgetpar.
.TP
.I ptr
is a pointer to a pointer to the location of the beginning of the string.
If the parameter does not occur, then the contents of
.I ptr
are unchanged.
Thus defaults can be set in advance of parsing.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.I sgetpar
returns the number of characters
in the string plus one (for the terminating null).
.SH EXAMPLE
.na
.nf
	char *hfile;	/* name of ascii header file	*/
        ...
        /* Defaults;            User overrides */
        hfile = "header";       sgetpar("hfile", &hfile);
        ...
.fi
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self-explanatory system subroutine call errors and
.TP 8
.I "getpars: xargc=... -- not initiated in main"
The standard call to initgetpar(3SU) was omitted from the program.
.SH SEE ALSO
hgetpar(3SU) ugetpar(3SU) lgetpar(3SU) vgetpar(3SU) igetpar(3SU) pgetpar(3SU)
fgetpar(3SU) zgetpar(3SU) maxgetpar(3SU) initgetpar(3SU)
.SH AUTHOR
Designed by Robert Clayton and Jon Claerbout.
This version was written by Shuki.
.SH REVISION LEVEL
1.20
